[RHACS] [Docs] ROX-31912: Adding docs for file activity monitoring (#106023)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/event-source-selection-for-file-activity-policies.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * operating/manage_security_policies/configuring-file-activity-monitoring.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="event-source-selection-for-file-activity-policies_{context}"]

> = Event source selection for file activity policies

Reviewer: nice job with this module

[role="_abstract"]
When you configure file activity monitoring, you must select between a *Deployment* or a *Node* event source. This choice determines whether you monitor activities originating from containerized workloads or from processes running directly on the host operating system.

Deployment event source::
+
--
Use the deployment event source to monitor file activity initiated by Kubernetes workloads, such as pods, jobs, or deployments. This source identifies when containers try to change their own files or the underlying host system.
--

Detection of host breakouts:::
+
--
Use the *Actual path* criteria, for example, `/etc/shadow`. Even if a user mounts a sensitive host file to an inconspicuous path, such as `/tmp/innocent_file` inside the pod, the *Actual path* identifies the true source on the host and triggers an alert.

> Protection of container integrity:::

Reviewer: extra `:` is causing this to not display correctly, I think

<img width="791" height="371" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/63f676aa-3e08-4520-b89f-04a49d23ccac" />

[NOTE]
====
If you define both *Effective path* and *Actual path* in a single policy, you create a highly specific match. For example, if you set *Effective path* to `/app/data` and *Actual path* to `/etc/shadow`, the policy only triggers if a container specifically mounts the host shadow file to that exact internal path.
====
--

Node event source::
+
--
Use the node event source to monitor sensitive file activity from processes running directly on the host, such as SSH sessions, systemd services, or stand-alone scripts.
--

Monitoring of host system files:::
+
--
Use the *Actual path* criteria, for example, `/boot/config`. You can detect modifications to critical system files by admins or scripts, even if they use symbolic links or hard links to access them.

[NOTE]
====
For node event sources, you can only use *Actual path* as a policy criterion. However, if a violation occurs, {product-title-short} displays both the *Actual path* and the *Effective path* in the *Violations* page. This provides the necessary context to identify evasion techniques or verify the specific symbolic link a user employed to obscure their activity.
====
--

Detection of evasion techniques:::
+
--

> Use the *Effective path* criteria to monitor known sensitive symbolic links. This approach helps you identify specific evasion signatures where a user attempts to obscure their activity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the *Effective path* criteria to monitor known sensitive symbolic links. This approach helps you identify specific evasion signatures where attackers attempt to obscure their activity.
```
